# Web Automation and Scraping

This project demonstrates web automation and scraping techniques using Python. It leverages libraries like PyAutoGUI, Requests, BeautifulSoup, Pyperclip, asyncio, and Pyppeteer to automate web browsing tasks and perform web scraping.

## Table of Contents
- [Features](#features)
- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)

## Features

- Automate web browsing tasks such as entering URLs, interacting with the address bar, and navigating to the next URL.
- Scrape web page data by retrieving header text using BeautifulSoup.
- Save visited URLs and header text to a JSON file for further analysis.
- Automate the downloading of ZIP files from a list of URLs using Pyppeteer and asyncio.

## Prerequisites

Before running the project, make sure you have the following prerequisites:

- Python 3.10 or above.

## Installation

1. Clone the repository:

    ````python
    git clone https://github.com/OlegSobadov/Automatization.git
    ````


2. Install the required libraries by running the following command:
    ````python
    pip install pyautogui requests beautifulsoup4 pyperclip pyppeteer
    ````


## Usage

Follow these steps to use the project:

1. Update the necessary variables and file paths in the scripts according to your requirements.

2. Run the first script, `web_automation_url_analysis.py`, to automate web browsing tasks and save visited URLs to a JSON file:


    The first script will save the visited URLs to a JSON file.

3. Run the second script, `zip_file_downloader.py`, to automate the downloading of ZIP files from the visited URLs. Pass the JSON file path as a command-line argument:

    ````python
    python zip_file_downloader.py
    ````


    Replace `data/visited_urls.json` with the actual path to the JSON file generated by the first script.

4. The second script will read the JSON file, extract the URLs, and automate the downloading of ZIP files from those URLs. The downloaded ZIP files will be saved to the respective directory.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! If you find any issues or have suggestions for improvement, please open an issue or submit a pull request.

## License

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

